
 Apple's programming language Swift is less than four years old, but a new report finds that it's already as popular as its predecessor, Apple's more established Objective-C language.

 Swift is now tied with Objective-C at number 10 in the rankings conducted by analyst firm RedMonk. It's hardly a surprise that programmers are interested in Apple's language, which can be used to build applications for the iPhone, Apple Watch, Macintosh computers, and even web applications. But the speed at which it jumped in the ranks is astonishing. Swift is the fastest growing language RedMonk has seen since it started compiling these rankings in 2011. Even Go, a programming language that Google released in 2009, hasn't been able to break into the top 10.

 The second fastest grower is Kotlin, which Google now officially supports on Android. It leaped from number 46 in the third quarter of 2017 to number 27 in January.

 RedMonk's rankings don't necessarily reflect whether companies are using these languages for real-world projects, or how many jobs are available for developers who know them. Instead, the firm tries to gauge how interested programmers are in these languages. Popularity among programmers could influence business decisions such as what languages to use for new projects.

 RedMonk compiles its rankings by looking at the number of questions people ask about each language on the question and answer site Stack Overflow as well as the number of projects using particular languages on the code hosting and collaboration site GitHub. The methodology was originally created by data scientists Drew Conway and John Myles White in 2010.

 Apple first released Swift in 2014. apple  The idea was not just to make it easier for new developers to learn to program, but to simplify life for experienced coders as well. Many languages over the years have aimed to smooth the programming process by offering syntax that's easier to read or building in features that programmers otherwise commonly write from scratch. But these sorts of languages often produced applications that ran more slowly than ones written in more difficult programming languages. Swift aimed to combine programmer-friendly features with performance.

 Kotlin, which was created by the company apple  JetBrains and officially released in 2016, has similar goals. What sets Kotlin apart is that it's compatible with the widely used Java programming language, which means programmers can include Java code in their Kotlin programs, or even write new features for Java applications using Kotlin. Kotlin had already received widespread attention from Java developers, but once Google announced full support for the language on Android, interest skyrocketed. RedMonk analyst Stephen O'Grady pointed out in the report that Kotlin’s Java roots could help it find its way into more places than Swift, such as large enterprise applications.

 Apart from the big gains for Swift and Kotlin, apple  the RedMonk rankings changed fairly little this quarter. JavaScript and Java remained the two most popular languages, closely followed by Python, PHP, and C#. As O'Grady notes in the report, it’s becoming harder and harder for new languages to break into the top 20. That makes the rise of Swift and Kotlin all the more impressive.
 If you want java to know how a website shares your personal data, you might be tempted to slog through its online privacy policy. Be prepared for disappointment. Website privacy policies explicitly disclose only a fraction of sites’ data-sharing practices, according to new research that casts doubt on whether users can make informed decisions about their online activity.

 The research, presented April 25 at the Web Conference apple in Lyon, France, investigated the data-sharing disclosures of more than 200,000 websites — the Arkansas state government homepage, for instance, and the Country Music Association site. In specific, it looked at how these sites shared data with third parties, such as advertisers and data brokers, as well as how those sites described their privacy policies.

 For java this analysis, privacy researcher Timothy Libert used a software tool called webXray to trace data transmissions from each website to third-party data collectors. Of 1.8 million data transmissions tracked, only 14.8 percent were sent to third parties specifically mentioned in those sites’ privacy policies. The rest of the data went to third parties that users wouldn’t know about even if they read the sites’ policy statements.

java Libert also found that data transfers to widely familiar third parties, like Google, Facebook and Twitter, were more likely to be disclosed than transfers to obscure entities. For instance, while 38.3 percent of data transmissions sent to Google were disclosed, the disclosure rate for the data broker Acxiom was about 0.3 percent.An analysis of data transfers from over 200,000 websites to third-party data collectors (some listed above) shows that the websites rarely disclose in their privacy policies exactly where they are sending your data. The data collector most likely to be disclosed was Google, with about 38 percent of data transfers coming from websites that named Google in their policy statements. More obscure entities, like Quantcast, showed far lower rates of disclosure. Fifteen other data collectors tracked in the study didn’t even break 1 percent.Even if website privacy policies listed all the third parties they shared data with, users still may not know exactly how their information gets spread around, says Libert, of the University of Oxford. That’s because third parties that receive user information from websites can then share that data with other entities. Getting online is “sort of like tossing confetti in the air,” Libert says. “There’s no way to know where your data ends up.”

 Data-sharing relationships between sites and third parties change so rapidly that it’s virtually impossible for privacy policy authors to keep up, says Christo Wilson, a computer scientist at Northeastern University in Boston not involved in the work. “The only true disclosure is, ‘We sell your data, and we don’t know where it goes,’” he says.

 Those still inclined to read privacy policies may want to set aside some time; it takes nearly 90 minutes on average to read a website’s privacy statement along with the policies of its known third-party data collectors, Libert found. “The idea that users can keep track of this, read policies, and make decisions is pure fiction,” he says.

 Internet users can try to keep their data out of advertisers’ hands “with things like hardcore ad-blocking,” says Wilson. But ad-blocking software may not ward off all advertisers, he adds. “It just gets more and more clear that we need things like GDPR,” or General Data Protection Regulation. This new set of rules that restricts how tech companies can collect and use personal data takes effect across the European Union in May (SN Online: 4/15/18).

 Libert says the United States needs an agency to oversee the data-sharing ecosystem, similar to how the U.S. Food and Drug Administration monitors pharmaceutical industry activity. “I can buy medicine at the store and not have to sit down with a chemistry textbook and look up every compound and see its effects — somebody at the FDA does that,” he says.
